Chapter 6
------------------------
[The bar should look like the one in Broadlands] The bars wasnt nearly as dingy as she imagined, it sat as a point of pride for the owner and patrons, neater than it should have been, despite showing it age. The seats plastic was worn from years of supprting customers to inherbriated to do it for themselves. Most of the things in the bar looked about as worn, but love was shown in their upkeep. The TV sat in the top corner of the room, ot the right of the door as you walked in. Elizabeth found her seat and was met by a welcoming barkeep, “Good afternoon mam, what will it be?”
Elizabeth was still a bit shook, and looked blankly at the man, “Im not too sure”
“Well what do you normally have?” She didnt have an answer for that either, an appletini was the farthest thing from her mind at the time.
Pathwell cut in, “Appletini for her, a pair of something domestic for my friend here and I if you will”.
Elizabeth looked at him confused, and turned back to the barkeep who had nodded and went about opening the two drinks for Stansbury and Pathwell before working on hers. The two of them flanked her, Pathwell reaching his drink across the front of her looking for Stansbury to return the action, getting only a shoulder turn. “No idea whats up with him” Pathwell drank from his bottle and turned away as well, finding the dart baord on the wall. Elizabeth sat there staring down at her coaster, wehn the drink appeared infront of her with a smile and nod from the bartender. She looked through the class at nothing, going over what happened in her head. Scratching the coaster with her nail, the paper stuck undre her nail, she wondered if this was all real, or was it part of being stuck inside that creature still.
“How do I know this is real?” She said outloud, with only the bartender to look up at her, and then look around the room at Pathwell and Stansbury without saying a word. “Maybe Im back home, or in that alley and this has all be part of that thing, eating me.” The bartender did his best to go back to his work, pretending to mind his own business as she countined on, “Is it like a dream, where if you pinch yourself, you can tell that youre asleep? Ive never had to doubt my dreams enough to try, but I dont think Ive ever known when I was living them either.”
“Hey, buddy” The bartender leaned over the counter towards Pathwell, “Your friend okay?”
Pathwell looked over his shoudler at Elizabeth with darts in hand dimsissivly, “Yeah shes fine, dont worry about her”.
“What are we doing here!?”She shouted staring down at her drink. She sat up and looked Pathwell, “Why are we just hanging out in a bar in the middle of no where? I was almost just eaten by a giant blob with a mouth.” She stared at him blankly looking for a responce of some sort, only to be met with a shrug from Pathwell, “Im gettign really tired of asking this, but what is going on!?”
Pathwell through the last dart in his hand without looking at the board, “I feel like you about as much as we do here Lizzy.”shrugging.
“You know thats not true, you both know way more about whats going on than youre letting me know, the fact that youre not freaking out over a three hudred pound blob trying to absord a guy who can make magic foam swords tells me”she pointed to herself,  “quite cleary that I do know know as much as the two of you” pointing to both of them with a hand for each of them. “So why dont we cut the crap and explain whats going on.”
Stansbury was staring at Pathwell by the time Pathwell looked back at him, shrugging after a moment. Standing up from his seat and moving towards Elizabth, her body subconioussly moving away from him, backing backing herself into the bar behind her. “Ok, what would you like to know?” Stansbury said calmly. “Would you like to know that we’re brothers?” his index finger flicking back and forth between Pathwell and himself. “Hmm? Do you want to know that magic and monsters exist? That villians arent just in fairy tales, and that evil comes from someplace real? That before you were even born, I lived dozens of lives, and Ill live a dozen more after youre gone?” He closed the space between them more, “That even in the chaos of nothings that is your life, all its memories, all its experiences, and emotions, all the things lost and never done, all your accomplishments and goals, all your hurts and all your loves, only matter to me between the pages of a book?”
“Stansbury!” Pathwell moved between the two of them, pushing Stansbury back. Turning to face Elizabeth his eyes softened, “He didnt mean all of that, he’s just a bit tired from the allthe exicetment.”
But the words fell empty on Elizabeth, lips persed nodding her head slowly with hurt in her eyes. “So where to then?”
Pathwell studied her for a moment and turned back to Stansbury, “Shes in. Lets get out of here. Youre a jerk by the way.” He said making eye contact with Stansbury.
“You didnt correct me” Stansbury replied. “Where are we even going?”
Elizabeth peaked over Pathwells shoulder, “We litterally got in the car with you”
“And this was as far as my plan took us.” he gestured around the room. “I just got off work.”
“Right, so we will worry about the minuta later. Lets get back on the road.” Stansbury slipped standing up, catching Pathwell and Elizabeths attention “Looks like Elizabeth is driving.” he said as he took the keys off the table passing Stansbury, “See, the plans already coming together.” He pushed the door open against the setting sun, the sky turning whisps of orange and red, the sea of heavy clouds puffed tall and wide out as the reached the open horizon. Sitting with heavy shadows over far off field.
“Red sky at night, saliors delight” Elizabeth said “My mom used to always tell me that. It means tomorrows going to be nice”
“We have to get there first Mrs. Elizabeth” Pathwell said skipping down the steps with flair. “We still have the night”.
6
------------------------
Chapter 7
------------------------
Elizabeth sat in the car while Pathwell poured Stansbury into the back, shoving him across the back seat rolling over himself coming to rest in a lopsided position, his head cocked against the door. The door latched with a heavy thwack and Pathwell moved around the back of the car to join Elizabeth in the front. For a moment as he was behind the hood the thought entered her mind about taking off and getting away, even so much as putting the car in drive slowly but with intent. She fought with herself long enough that Pathwell opened the passanger door and stuck his head in, “For a moment I thought you were going to take off there” he chuckled. She only stared forward in responce, “Im guessing you did too.” He sat in the car and closed the door, “Well, next time, learn to act and then think.” he buckled his seatbelt, “things are far more interesting when you do.”
“Just tell me where we are going”
“Id love to, I really would.”
“Okay, how are we supposed to find you in the future?”
Pathwell sat blankly.
“Okay... how did you do it last time?”
“Oh, well I found me last time.”
“Well then...” Elizabeth looked for the words, “... tell yourself to meet us somewhere then.”
“Thats a great idea Lizzy” he drifted off
“...But the problem is?”
“Well its really a one way conversation isnt it? I can ask myself to do something, but I cant force it. I dont have to listen to myself now do I?”
The car lurched forward as Elizabeth slammed on the gas, jumping into the empty road. Rocks kicking the side of the tin bar. The back of the car whipping around the road before finding it footing and charging the empty highway. He foot never left the floor as the engine rumbled with a frieghtining glee, let loose on the world. Picking up speed, the fence posts began to blur and Pathwell pealed himself from the side door finding his center. “Wheres the fire Lizzy?” The only responce was her shift the steering whell from side to side banging Pathwell agsint the side, and tumbling Stansbury to the floor. “OKay” he manged to grunt between braces of the shifting slams the side of the car was delievering to him. “Okay, I understand that you might be upset.”
“Upset!? Might be Upset!?” She roared as the engine changed gears, “Well thank goodness that you can understand why I might be upset!” The tires screeched in delight as they tiptoed from side to side, “Either you figure out how to get a meeting with yourself right now, or Im going to crash this car with the lot of us in it.”
“I dont think thats going to work”
“Now, now Pathwell, and I mean it.” Half the car dropped into the curb dancing over the ditch and cutting back over, “You better figure out how to get yourself here, or there wont be a you to get here much longer.” The car half in the ditch began to fight back against the road, coming closer to the telephone poles that spotted the side of the road. “I dont know how much long Ican fight the car Pathwell.” A side view mirror being ripped off as it clipped a pole.
Pathwell gripped the dash with white knukles, “Alright, I have an idea, and you seem to be very persuasive” He pinched his eyes closed bracing himself against the ditches jumping the car around.
Stansburys hand reached up, pulling himself up into his seat, confused and a mess, “What is happening?”
Pathwell broke his concentratoin for a moment, “Elizabeth is going to crash the car with us in it, unless I can set up a metting with myself in the future”
“I think you had better give the lady what she wants Pathwell.” Stansbury burped.
“Im trying”
The second tires began to fight to keep on the road as she let the car slide over more, “I mean it Pathwell.”
Stansburys paniced voice spoke up from the back, “Just give the lady what she wants Shade”
“Im trying”
The tires slid off and the car was full in the ditch, The telephone poll now guarding the way forward, in the center of the car.
“Do it”
Pathwells eyes pinched hard, the dashboard bending under his grip, the tires gripping the dry dirt, fishtailing the car as the pole grew closer and closer. His eyes opened with surprise and he dug his hands into his pocket, snapping out they glowed bright white, the inside of the car flashed birght white. The car wrapped itself around the pole with a thunderous stop. Elizabeths vision filled with the blinding brightness of a mid day sun, she felt its warmth, as if standing in an open field on a cloudless sping day. The light was a flash and the feeling was gone, she sat in the ditch past the car, with Pathwell standing over her.
Pathwell reached down helping her to her feet, “You okay there Elizabeth?” she could still feel the warmth of the sun on her face.
Rubbing her head, “Yeah, I think Im okay? What...” she paused to look around her, seeing the car half wrapped around the pole and half tangled in a barbed wire fence. Her only thought was about how upset the farmer was going to be when they saw what happened. [the car crash shouldnt be that bat, it should just be the trunk getting wrecked as she turned the car away at the last moment, chickening out.] [maybe add that he is excited to see her after all this time]
“Yeah, he is probably going to be upset.”
She looked at him confused, “What?... How?” he head began to ache, “What just happened.”
“You crashed the car” he helped steady her as her knees buckled slightly under her, “Not one of my better spells admittidly, but I was in a bit of a rush.”
Elizabeth looked back at him and abck at the car, before beginning to sit back down on the side of the road. “Are you okay?”she looked up at him.
His attention snapped from the car, almost surprised by the question, “Oh me? Yeah Im fine.” he spun around slowly with his arms at shoulder hieght, showing off his untouched clothes, “See? Im fine. You really should be more careful about that sort of thing though dear.”
“Elizabeth!” a voice called out from behind them, in the car, shouting out again to her with a searching panic, “Elizabeth!”. The figure stood up from the back of the car. A tall, lanky man in ribboned jacket, bleeding from the nose. Elizabeths eyes widened seeing him stand there, as they looked at each other, she turned her head to the man next to her, looking him up and down, in disbelief before looking back. She side stepped away from the man standing next to her.
He smiled at with a shrug, “Honestly I had hoped that it wouldnt come to this.” his shoulders dropped “Well, at least this soon.” Slowly reaching into the side pocket on his coat he began shifting through pages, and notes, index cards. Elizabeth continued to back away slowly, looking back and forth at both Pathwells. “You can just call me Mr. Shade” he said outloud. “I said it to you.” He said to the open air, “No. Not the open air, I said it to you voice in my head.” ... Elizabeth was confused as he continued to talk himself, “Im not talking to myself and you know it. Im talking to you, whoevers voice Im hearing. We have been over this before, Im talking right to you.” ...me? “Yes you.” [maybe expand the narrators confusion here]. Elizabeth was halfway to Pathwell before Mr. Sahde’s attention was broken away from nothing, “Not nothing, but thank you, I had almost forgotten why we were here.” He finished sorting through his papers, took the sheet in to his hand, whispered a few words and punched the air infront of him. A blast of hot air shot forth from him, a wall of swirling air blowing past her, knocking her to her side. A second gust, more ferorcious and hot, kicked up behind the wall, trapping her to the ground. She looked up enouhg to see Pathwell tucked behind the car, yelling to her in soundless words.
Before the third gust, she heard “Stay” break through the wind, a burning hot gust, pushing her flat to the ground, and moving the car back, knocking Pathwell to the ground. Looking back she saw Sahde walking towards her, her feet searching foe the ground. She manged to find it with her hip and then a knee, before being grabbed by the back of her coat and lifted off the ground.
“Come now Lizzy, we have somewhere to be, and I do intend to be on time.” he grasped her by the wrist, straining her joint, dragging her with him as he walked to a car parked across the road. Her feet hardly kept up as they tangled and skipped across the road. He opened the back door and tossed her in the back. She couldnt find the thought to scream, or the sense to move for the door. Shade slammed the door as he plopped himself into the drivers seat, putting the car in drive, checking his mirrors “Saftey first” he said outloud, sticking his arm out the open windom and stuck his arm straight out the window before mkaing a sharp turn into the road and peeling out away from the accident, Elizabeth swishing in the back seat of car, with Pathwell only able to watch as the car blended into the horizon.
“What the was that?” Stansbury groaned as he sat up from the back of the car.
“That, was me.”
Stansbury reached out through the window frame and opened the door, scrapping against itself slowly as it opened, letting Stansbury out, “No wonder he was such a jerk.” Stansbury stood gripping his side. Placing a hand on Pathwells shoulder, “Come on” nudging him away from the horizon, “bars the other way.” [maybe have more of an interaction with Shade and Pathwell]
7
---------------
Chapter 8
--------------
The radio glowed a a hypnotic blue through the darkness of the front seat. Elizabeth sat in the back of the car, quiet, arms crossed as she looked out the window. The stars following her, as the mile markers passed by in a reflective blur. The music was an old song that played form her childhood, she listened to it, and ssang the words in her head, her humming betraying her silence. The driver tapped the wheel along with the steady beat, singing quietly to himself, notcing her humming when he forgot the lyrics for a moment. “You know, you dont have to sit back there, youre welcome to sit up front with me.”
Sitting forward, she leaned over the front seat, “Fine, pull the car over and ill get out.”
He laughed, “You always were the kidder Elizabeth”.
She could hear the smile in his voice, but still took the bait, “Were?”
He laughed again gently and warmly, looking over at her, “We’re almost there”. He focused back on the road.
She looked back out the window, and saw the empty road ahead, slumping back into her seat she looked back up at the night sky, and the stars following them. Her thoughts dangled on the ‘were’, feeling the word bounce between her ears, picking about the word, the sylable, and inflection, figetting in her seat.
“You can relax, Im not going to hurt you. I know what youre thinking”
“How can you know what im thinking?”
“Hmm?” Shade pretended to be distracted from her question before looking back to her.
She sighed, “Forget it” She sat quietly for a moment before, “So if youre not going to hurt me, why did you kidnap me?” Shade continued to drive, humming along the words. Elizabeth stared at the back of his head waiting for a responce, “Can you at least answer me?”. He hummed on. She lunged over the front seat for the radio, snapping the volume to down until the power clicked off the blue glow that eluminated Shades face faded and He hummed on. She hung over the front of the seat, looking for a reaction. Anything.
“If you want to join me in the front seat youre welcome to, you dont have to hide in the back the whole way.”
“Can you at least tell me where we are going?”
“Does it matter if you know where we are going?”
The aged vinly seat sighed as she slummped back again, creaking and squeaking below her shifting disapointment. She thought for a moment coming up with a plan, “I just want to know how much longer I have to hold it.” Maybe she can get away then.
“Im happy to pull over whenever you need me to.” The car began to slow as he put a blinker on.
“I cant go in the bushes” she said sitting up.
“Well theres not much else around, and its not like anyone is coming. Just be quick.” The door wasnt locked as she pulled the handle opening the door. She leftthe door open, and looked around for anything, anwhere to go. But it was dark, in all directions, except for the lights of the car. She thought about running into the field infront of her, standing there hoping her eyes would adjust before she took off. The quick double tap of the horn shook her out of her thought, as she looked back at the car again. Her right foot moved away from the car, her body was telling her to take off into the dark, and find something, or anything. To find Pathwell. The taillights changed, and rolled backwards towards her slowly until she could see Shade looking back at her.
“If youre gonna run off, I wouldnt recommend the field, theres nothing that way for miles for gopher holes. And the way we came is even longer than that.” he paused for a moment, “so why dont you just get back in and we can get going.” he waited as she weighed the options, “Tell you what, theres the most amazing greasy spoon down the way just a bit more, we can grab something to eat thre and maybe have a chat.” She stood there a bit more, listening to the crickets and bugs talking to each other, before sighing and walking back to the car, closing the back door and plopping down in the front, latching the door shut with a intentional slam. Shade put the car in drive, signled with an arm out the window, and pulled out onto the road. The radio clicked back on and Shade went back to humming, “You always did come around”. She could hear the smile in his voice.
8
=====
Chapter 9