Chapter 5
To start:
"Potential?" Elizabeth interrupted.
Pathwell turned to her, frustrated, "Life is full of potentional, branching choices dont exist until theyre made, so you just trim off some of those brances you arent going to use."
"What happens to the branches?"
"They never happen. Most probably werent giong to anyway, so its really no loss. You just tighten the path you were going to walk. Magic is neither created nor destroyed, you just redirect it."
Chapter 5
-      The team needs to be sent on an adventure, they need to find out what is going to happen, ie what is pathwell doing that needs to be stopped, where is it happening? How do you find out whats going to happen before it happens?
༺༒──────༒༻༺༒──────༒༻
Pathwell and Elizabeth were waiting for Stansbury outside by an old maroon cadilac, Pathwell was drapped over the car looking up at the sky through squinted eyes. “My god is this what waiting is like?”
Elizabeth looked up from sratching her finger, that little space next to the nail, “Its been like twenty minutes Pathwell, you cant tell me you’ve never waited for anything before.”
Pathwell lifted his chin up and looked at her upside down, “If I have, it certainly wasn’t this boring”
“Who is this guy anyway?”
“Who?”
nodded towards the school, “Stansbury”
Oh, right.” Pathwell turned over on the hood and stood up halfway still leaning over the car, resting his head in his hands, “Well..." Pathwell paused in thought for a moment "When youve been at it long enough, friends become enemies and enemies become friends, blah blah blah. You get the idea. Stansbury just likes to be a thorn in my side, and everyones side, whenever he gets the chance." Pathwell stood up "There was this time I was dealing with a particularly annoying Bakhtak."
"Oh that was your fault and you know it, you even told me afterwards." Stansbury interrupted as he dropped a box of foam swords on a cars hood. Looking to Elizabeth, "Dont listen to him when it comes to old stories, he only partially remembers his own half truths."
"I did not" Pathwell corrected
"See?" Stansbury rolled his eyes.
"Wahts with the swords?" Elizabeth said poking around the box.
"Those are his weapons" Pathwell said with an extra dismissive tone on weapons.
"That you need" Stansbury corrected.
"What are we going to do with a bunch of foam swords?" Elizabeth asked reaching into the box before having her hand swatted away by Stansbury.
Stansbury smacked the back of her curious hand causing her snatch her hand back, "We are going to do nothing, these arent toys for you to play with."
Elizabeth rubbed the back of her hand looking confused and annoyed with Stansbury. "These are not toys."
"Stansbury is very sensitive about his swords Lizzy, be nice."
"We  used to play with these as a kid, what are they gonna do for us now?"
Stansbury looked at Elizabeth annoyed, "Theyre magic, they dont need to be pointy, Lizzy" He made sure to emphasize the mocking tone when he said her name.
"Oh come now Stansbury, the girl didnt know your noddles are actually very dangerous" Pathwell said poking at the box of foam swords causing Stansbury to snatch them back from him as well. He grabbed one of the swords from the box and walked over to overhanging tree, speaking a few words softly, the foam glowed a bright orange, with interlocking plates wraping around the foam built from the base,  he wound up and struck the tree. It shook and wobbled its leaves, loosening all the water from its branches, and raining down on the Elizabeth and Pathwell, leaving Stansbury with a look that expected them to be impressed.
"What was that for?" Elizabeth said, while Pathwell laughed.
"These foam swords can do a lot more than you think" he said pointing it at her.
Pathwell slid the box across the hood towards him, "Alright Stansbury, you can  stop showing off and put your noodle away"
"Always so crass Pathwell" he said placing the sword back into the box, collecting his things and walking around to the drivers side of the car and place the box in the back seat. "Well?" he gestured to the car doors.
"Shotgun" Pathwell yelled as he hurried past Elizabeth, knocking her over at the wasit into the cars hood.
She exclaimed in frustration, "Pathwell!" before gathering herself and walking to the back of the car, and slamming the door.
They rode in sielcne through the small town, mostly because the radio only worked when it wanted, and partly because it annoyed Pathwell. You would be forgiven for not stopping in the town as you drove through, and even more if you didnt notice while you did. A small cross roads store met the only stop sign in the town served as general store, and resturnat for the town with much of the rest of the town just off the main road.  A small bar sat behind the store, sharing a parking lot. It had a pool table, and a dart board, and its regulars. Parking the car in the kicked dust parking lot.
“What are we dong here?” Pathwell said as he stuck just his head out the window.
“I just got off work, I wouldn’t mind a refreshment Pathwell. Besides, Im sure the poor girl could use a break after you’ve been dragging her around town.” Stansbury turned the car off and stepped out the car, looking back to Elizabeth in the back seat. “Youre welcome to come in, just bring of of those little foam daggers with you” he smiled. Pathwell got out of the car through the open window, and stretched his legs.
Elizabeth sat in the back looking at the two of them, and then at the poorly glowing neon light from the window sign of the bar, advertising a beer they no longer sold, and she doubted they even still made.  It was the early afternoon and the parking lot was half full, it was hard to tell for which side, or whether or not they would just migrate over from one to the other as the day went on. The screen door to the bar slammed shut with a snapping clack as Stansbury had already walked in beofr Pathwell noticed her hesitation.
“Hey, youre gonna be fine, look if youre worried, just bring one of Stansburys little swords.” He said looking back at here, she heard Stansburys voice in the back of her head “he lies”. Perplexed, he looked at her, “I don’t lie”. That was enough for her to grab a foam dagger from the open window on the backseat. The door slammed shut, making Elizabeth hit her head on the ceiling of the car and she yanked herself fomr the cars open window. She felt around her clothes for a place to stash it, and was left with letting it stick out the back of her waistband with her flowing clothes to cover it naturally. The air was foul with the rotting whiffs of old beer and sunbaked dumpster. The early evening sun scattered itself through the single overhanging tree that covered parts of the parking lot throughout the day.
The bars thin screen door entrance sat on a weathered deck, that was met by short steps. Elizabeth looked around after placing a foot on the step, seeing only rows of corn across the road to her left and the the spattered sheltering of the town to her right, she met the next step and moved towards the bar. The noise inside became apparent, a mix of beaten speakers playing songs even they were tired of and the sparse tinkling of cheered glasses. Pulling back the handle, the spring on the screen door released a slow deep strain as she held it open and pushed open the beaten wood door and hat sat behind it. It had been bright out, so the dim light of the bars innards took a moment to come into focus past the stretched rectangle of light the open door allowed in.
“There you are” Standbury sloshed. In just a few moments he managed to soak his pores in whiskey, Pathwell wasn't much better, “Lizzy, what took so long?” He squeezed between burps.
“Are you two drunk?”
“Not yet” Standbury smiled.
"How are you two drunk already?" She said in a mix of digust and impressed stammer. "What is going on?"
"Tempura diffuser" Pathwell slurred.
Confused, Elizabeth stared at him for a moment, "What?"
"Tem-pura dif-fuser" Pathwell sounded out slowly.
Stansbury walked up behind him, not much better off but at least making sense, "He means a Temporal Diffuser, Tempora is the little fried shrimps". Stansburys eyes widened, "Speaking of which", he turned to the bar and spoke to the bar tender, "2 of those little battered and fried fish please, and some fries on the side please."
"Whats going on?"
"Poor, always confused Lizzy, always looking for an answer. I told you sometimes you need to just find your way through the forest, youre always looking for your way out." Pathwell sighed, "The bar" he gestured around "is like the book store. It exists, outside of what you understand as linear time." He finished his drink in a gulp, "Drinks go down, sun stays up" his arms went out with a 'tada'.
"You brought me here just do the two of you could get drunk?"
Pathwell winked at her and Stansbury returned with a checked paper tray of friend fish and fries, the smell of malt vinger soaking into the crisp battered shell. "Right" he said dipping the fish into a white sauce filled plastic rammican, "We gonna get this party going or what?" taking a mouthful of fish and sauce, spilling out to the sides of his mouth. "So good" he said to himself, "You two sure you dont want anything to eat? Makes the trip a lot better"
"Trip?" Elizabeth looked at him, "Youre not drinvign like this"
A thud was heard, snapping Elizabeths attention to the sound, only for her to see the bartender crushing mint for a customer.
Stansbury laughed, "of course not" looking at Pathwell and laughing again. "When are you going to clue this poor girl in?"
Pathwell turned slightly serious, "So, it helps to have a drink, to loosen up for the trip. You really dont want to be tense. Which for you.." Pathwell turned to the bar keeper "Im gonna need a belt of single barrel". The bartend flipped out a glass and snapped up the bottle, pouring before the glass touched down, and catching the open moth as it landed, quickly filling the it and pushing it towards Pathwell. Who in turn snatched it up and handed it over to Elizabeth. "Trust me it helps"
"Im good" she said scrunching her face.
"Your loss" Stansbury snatched the glass and finshed it in a single gulp, leaving Pathwell to look at him annoyed. "Now lets get going, shall we?" Stansbury headed towards the glowing exit sign.
"Youre gonna be fine" Pathwell said calmly and as soberly as he could muster. "Just try to stay loose, and stay close." He saw no sign of relief in her eyes, "You brought the dagger right?" Her face said yes, "Well look, if you get worried, just take it out and start swinging it around. Okay? Now come on, before he leaves us behind." Pathwell turned and headed for the back where Stansbury had been.
Thud again, Elizabeth looked to the bartender to see him working on another drink. Thud, thud, thud, as his open palm smashed the mint leaves. Except they werent in sync. Just before the palm stuch the leaves, the thud was heard. And a stentch of the bottom of the ocean began to fill the stale air. Her eyes widened, and she began to look around for the source of the sound, surely it was somehting in the back, or old trash, it was most certinly a coincidnence. Thud, thud, thud, the sound was outside the door now, clear apparently only to her. She looked out th ewindow and only saw daylight. But the sound continued, and the thud was getting deeper. The screen door bellowed open, slowly, painfully, and the thin gap of light left by a cracked door filled from the bottom with a dark shadow in the doorway. The smell overwhelming her, as it sat heavy in the air, filling th eback of her throat. She swallowed heavy and dry in hoping ot clear the stench, only to move it further down. The space in her chest filled, and her breathing raced, everything was happening at the same time around her and she couldnt find a thing to focus on.
Thud, now at the door, it opened further, creaking before giving way, swinging wide and fast with furry as a great weight pressed heavy onthe hinges. The doorframe was dark and shrouded as the formless shadow filled its shape. Elizabeths eyes darted around the dim room, seeing nothing but a half lit room around her. No Pathwell, no Stansbury, no Bartender or slummped regulars burrowed in their stools. Turning back the shadow was gone, her joints ached, her elbows, wrists and knuckles all streched the out, looking for anywhere to go.
Thud, behind her, she spun and saw nothing. Thud, behind her again, she dove to the side, noly to find nothing behind her again. The bar filled again, having knocked over a stool, the bartender leaning over the counter, looking down at her, "You alright there miss?"
She felt the eyes on her, looking aruond she struggled to her feet, "Im fine" halfway up "thank you". Pathwell was still gone, "Where did my friends go?" The bartender pointed to the back of the darkened hall. "Thank you." She lifted the stool back up, and moved, still feeling the eyes on her as she rounded the corner of the dark hall. There was no light, for her to see what was past the void. She reached out and felt nothing, the walls seemed to numb her touch. Looking back the bar had gone back to minding its business, the dull speakers and the huddle patrons continued on as if she had never been there. She felt as though she was looking into a moment in time, preserved.
Her body shifted towards the boundless hollow, a foot reaching through nothhing. She began to fall as her weight shifted over her foot, the sense of panic rushing through her as the expected was missing. She felt nothing there to stop her. The walls held nothing for her to prevent her slipping down, there was only a single tug on the back of her robes. Stopping her in the darkness, he head halfway into the void. She herself be ripped backwards, as the void help tigher, gripping her with thick air. Tugs, and her weight shifted back, a heel finding footing as the rising waters of the darkness sunk in around her, hugging her. She tried to breathe deep in the fear of nothingness and found nothing to fill her lungs, her arms swimming through the darkness, trying to find her mouth, fruitlessly. Another panicked breath with nothing to show. Mind racing, no thought stuck, middle of sentences, and end of words mixed, nothing of reason could be found. The only thing she heard from deep inside was 'dagger' and in a moment her hand reached back swimming through to find the handle stuffed into the back of her dress. Slipping it from her sash sheath she slid the foam blade through the enveloped void, wildly she swung her blade to fruitless effect. From behind her she head a voice yell, “Gladius Acutus!”. The blade warmed in her hand, and glowed in the deep dark, a lantern of foam that cut like a club, spurring back the deep dark, howling and reeling into form. Light broke through the rent nothingness, daylight fighting past what was nothing, and a hand stuck through reaching for her to pull her through.
“Take my hand Lizzy” the voice called to her, she swung again fighting furiously against the moonless night, before her wrist was grabbed by one hand, then two, and a third, all pulling her through the deep and into the morning. With a call “Pull!” she tumbled, newborn and weaklegged onto the graveled dirt, spilling out into the open air. The world around her was birght and jarring, and she looked around for any sign of familiar. Lifted to her feet, she heard Pathwells voice guiding her, “Come on, nows not the time to rest” as she was blindly moved, slipping on loose gravel below, stumbling she felt the car on her right and was placed on the ground. Eyes adjusting to the light, she saw she was still outside the bar, sitting next ot the passanger side door. The world was still a spun in a blur around her, the sounds coming from any which direction.  [Have Pathwell get notes and letters from the people in the caravan area]
Stansbury voice called out, “You mean to tell me you brought zero books with you!?”
“Yes! It slipped. my mind. Would you please focus!?” Pathwells voice moved around her. The car rocked pushing her to her side as the suspension fought back against the force. “Would you just kill it already!?” Another slam, as Stansburys voice carried a yelling blow. Elizbeth crawled away from the car sitting up, her vision returning enough to see a gelatinus blob, the size of the car, pushing its way off the car.
Pathwell stood on the hood, reaching back into his coat, “I don’t exactly have anything for this situation Stans”
Stansbury foam swoard stuck out above the blob as he raised it to the air, calling forth with words a force, striking down the blob with a tight squish, separating it from itself. She saw him through the car window, exhausted.
“There you go” Pathwell cheered. “I knew we brought you along for a reason!” Jumping down from the hood.
Stansbury looked over to him flusterd and annoyed, “I thought you visted the Keeper already?”
Pathwell waived him off, “Yeah, but that was for the cause.”
Stansbury look of annoyance deepened,  “Well maybe next time be prepared”. Stansbury fell to the ground as the blob lunged for his legs, the air from his lungs fleeing.
“You’ve only made two of them” Pathwell realized, hopping back on the hood of his car. “You’ve only made them made Stans!”
“I noticecd” He said kicking the stiff
======================??????=================
Pathwell stood on the hood of the car looking over the edge as Stansbury thwapped his foot against the heavy sagging blob, it slowly climbing over his shins. “Do something!” .
“I dont know what you want me to do, Im fairly sure that you have it under control” Pathwell shouted back.
A senstaion like his legs we alseep crawled up and over Stansbury’s knees as the ameobas crawled higher up to his knees. “How do you not having anything for this?” he shouted.
Pathwell sat down on the edge of the car, his feet dangling over the side, “Most of my spells are for protection right now, I dont know what you want me to do for you.”
“Protect me!”
Pathwell shrugged with a smirk, “I dont know, last I rememebr you said you didnt need my protection.”
“Are you serious!?” Stansbury flaied his arms at Pathwell but was stuck to the ground by the blob. “Now!? You bring this up now!?”
“Feels like the best time to bring it up” Pathwell slid off the car onto his feet, “Just say you need my protection Stansy”
Stansbury sighed, letting his head bounce on the hard dirt. Through gritted teeth, “I need your help... would you please use a protection spell to help me?”
Pathwell stood straight up and smiled, hands on his hips, “There, that wasnt so bad was it?” Pathwell reached into the back of his coat, taking his time to look around and making a specitcal of his searching. “Now where did I put it?... Hmmmm” He checked the same spot multiple times, pretending to look confused.
“Will you just do something!” the blob had reached Stansbury thighs, as he layed there defeated.
Pathwell put his hand hand, signing for Stansbury to calm down, “I know its around here somewhere”
“Pathwell!”
Pathwell snatched a small stack of papers and held them out triumphienly. “There we are, i knew they were aroudn here somewhere.” He began to flip through the pages, “Now which one” Stansbury sighed, laying in the dirt before trying to sit up and attack Pathwells ankles the best he could, Pathwell looked down at Stansbury, and slid a half step away. “That wont be nessicary”. Finally landing on a sheet after his third passthrough he held it out and began to speak before interuppting himself,
“Now when you do this sort of thing you do have to be mindful of the impact it has on yourself you know.” A small pebble struck him in the side of the head and Pathwell looked down at Stansbury, tilting his head and raising his eyebrows, “Really Stany?”
A foam dagger swung into his view and cut at the gelatinous menious, cleaving it at Stansburys knees, sending it realing awayand back down his legs. Slashing and swinging wildly the beast was chopped into ribbons, each landing with the weight of a soaked blanket.
“I was going go help” Pathwell said as he watched Elizabeth carve out chunks of the blob.
“You were just going to stand there and let him be eaten.”
“Not all of him” Pathwell stuffed the notes into his pocket. Stansbury kicked the pieces off of him and sat up the best he could waiting for the feeling to return to his legs.
“I really am going to kill you Pathwell.”
Pathwell bending over at the waist, “Well that is the plan, now isnt it?”
Elizabeth interuppted them, “Did you all forget about the other giant blob?” She pointed to the large mass that had been moving towards them now that Elizabeth was on the other side of the car.
Pathwell, looking at her smiled, “Well I think you got this one under control dont you? After all you do seem to have the hang of it at this point”
She looked back at him slightly shocked. “I have no idea what im doing here.”
“Well thats the first step into being good at something now isnt it?” Before slapping her on the back and pushing her towards the blob.
Cathcing herself from falling she looked at him again “CAnt you just say some magic words and make it disapeer!?”
“Not without a sheet or two, all my notes are purely protective at this point.”
Elizabeth reached behind her and pulled out her journal tossing it at him, “You used this last time”
Pathwell shocked as he haphazedly caught the book as it hit him in the chest, “You stil have this?”
“Make yourself useful” Elizbeth snapped as she stood ready to take on the crawling mass.
“You arent supposed to still have this Lizzy, it was part of our deal with the keeper.”
“It was part of your deal” She said swipping at the blob as it reached out for her. “Its my journal”
“Very well” Pathwell sighed, flipping through the pages before snapping it closed and holding it in his open left palm, his right hand hovering just above the cover. His fingers twisted and contorted as he spoke softly to the open air, his eyes closed with a blissful peace. A bright orange light shown from the pages of the book, and attached itself to Pathwells wrists, his fingers spread wide, the light began to leave the book and fill his palm, his eyes pinched tightly closed, his words became short and pained. Speaking quicker, the light formed orbs that spun below in open palm, shaping themselves with each syllable uttered. His palm snapped closed, the light sinking deep into his hand before glowing bright orange. His body absording the light and glowing bright. Reaching up to the sky and pointing high with two fingers outstretched, he lowered them, and pointed at the blob, his thumb lifted up and with a mouthed, “pow” the light from Pathwells finghers shot deep into the mass, spreading itself through, reaching and searching, fingers branching off from each new bolt, until two ends found a way out. With a deafing crackle, and boom, the light burts through the creature splintering itat the seams, leaving it to fizzle out on the dirt lot, sizzling, before going flat. Pathwell put his fingers to his lips and blew gently but sharp, “That Stansy, is why you need my help.” looking pleased with himself.
Stansbury dusted himself off having finally found feeling in his legs again and making it to his feet. Punching Pathwell in the arm as hard as he could, “Thats for making me wait.”
Rubbing his arm, and to Elizabeths surprise Pathwell shed a tear, “Pathwell, youre crying.”
“He deserves it, after almost letting me getabsored but that stupid sucker.”
“You didnt have to punch him”
“Oh hes not crying because of me, he’s crying because of you”
“I didnt do anything”
“Not you, you. Your book, or whatever’s inside it, he always gets all blubbery from journals.” Stansbury could see she was still concerned, “Whatever energy he draws from, sticks around for a little, like an echo. Has he not explained all this to you?”
“No, he has, its just, still hard to see”
Stansbury rolling a sleeve up, “Yeah well. Youll get used to it.” rolling the other sleeve with vigor, “Its not always all touchy feely Pathwell.” He turned his attention to Pathwell, “Now come on, you owe me a drink.”
6a
------------------------
Chapter 6
------------------------