Chapter 4
--- CHAPTER 4 ---
- SIgn of Pathwell losing his free will could be that he begins to hear the narrator telling him what he doing and what is about to do. Believed to be a form of insanity associated with a persons loss of free will and dive in to determonism.
- Pathwell is on his way to a fortune teller who will be ablel to tell him what his future is probably going to be and since he has lost most of the potentional of his future, he has a better idea of what will be happening.
- Pathwell will begein to hear the narrartor as he looses more of his potential as a way to demonstrate the loss of free will.
-------------------------------------------
Pathwell opened the door to a shrinking night shky, and dew soaked morning air. The blossoming flowers greedily filled his lungs as he sucked in the breeze deeply from the doorway. Elizabeth sat on the the chair rubbing the happy belly of her new best friend after a feast. "Time to go" he said without turning back. She tried to stop rubbing  but was met with two front paws grasping around her hand, a warning of the consequences of her actions. "Come on, youll see her again soon enough." he said with certainty. Boots licked her hand and released Elizabeth from his grasp as she snuck one last head rub in before standing. "And dont forget the bags" [maybe I need to not list how much of what he buys, so that I dont have to keep trakc of it later.]. Elizabeth grabbed the bags set by the door, waving goodbye to the shopkeeper before stepping through the doorway, te morning grass soaking her shoes.
"Please dont forget my dumplings next time." the shopkeepr shouted as the door latched closed with a sturdy clunk. When Elizabeth looked back she saw the door face was rocks, dirt and branches matching the asunderd cliffside. When she turned back aruond, Pathwell had already made his to crossing the field and towards the tree line.
"Pathwell, Where are we going?" She shouted.
Pathwell raised his finger inthe air "The real question is where are we goi-" He stopped and turned around. Before smiling his clasped his hand, and raised an eyebrow listening, pausing just a bit, "Right, well we need to find out what I plan to do. And how we areing going to stop me. How are we going to do that you ask? Great question Lizzy."
"I didnt say anything"
"Not verbally, but I could see it on your face. So, to do that, we will have to find some friends of mine." He turned back to the forest and continued walking "Come along, they could be anywhere."
Elizabeth had stopped to listen to Pathwell and found herself hustling through the tall grass trying to keep up as Pathwell slid into the forest. She put her head down and trotted along. She made her way between the trees of and began looking for Pathwell. She yelled for him, to no responce, "Pathwell!", grumbling under her breath in frustration, "Darn it, where are you?" her voice raised again, "Pathwell!". The sounds of the forest were the only repsonce untl she saw him standing a about a few feet deeper into the forest. "Dont you have some sort of magic book to carry all this" she said dragging the bags behind her. She made her way around a large oak tree, her feet getting caught in undergrowth. She wiggled it free and took a step forward just enough for herr foot to be met with a tree root, followed by another greeting to the ground. The books slid forward and the taste of dirt kissed her lips. She layed there for a moment, frustrated, annoyed. She felt Pathwell lift her arm up and pick her up from the ground.
"Now you really do have to be careful young lady, these trees are very spiteful." said an old weak voice. Elizabeth looked up to see a kind faced woman looking at her, dresseed in a white linen shirt, and navy shaw with a scarf over her head. Her skin was sun cured tan and a bit wrinkly. "Where are you off to in such a hurry?"
"I was looking for my friend." She said as a bit of a confession and frustration.
"Oh your Mr. Pathwells friend?" The old lady said surprisingly. "He was waiting for you." Elizabeth got back to her feet, brushing off her clothes.
"Where is he?"
"He said you would say that" the old lady smiled gently
"Where are we?"
"He said you would say that too" she laughed lightly. "Would you like some help, those bags do look heavy."
"uh, sure" Elizabeth said pausingly confused. "thank you." The little lady, wide shouldered, and sturdy, hunched over and took the bags by the handles and stood back up. There was no effort made, no sounds of strain. She just simply lifted the bags up and was on her way.
"This way if you please. Just follow me." She lead ELizabeth through the trees, around stumps, and over fall logs, between trees and around rocks. The midmorning sun shown brightly in the green forest. It was early spring and the forest was alive with new life. Her guides pace increased, seemingly unphased by the load, and she hoped up and over laying truncks as tall as her. A short hike,  lead them to a clearing of circled wagons. Strumming strings were heard and smoke rose from the center of the wagons. The smell of something roasting, and the sound of wood being chopped.
"This way if you please. Just follow me" The lady said again. "Your firend should be just around here somewhere." She ducked under and between one of the wagons, leaving Elizabeth to find her way around. She approached caustously, trying not to be seen. The wagons were close, so she could only really see what she had heard early, it was a man, dressed in a old blazer, and dress pants, dark navy blue with not shirt on underneath. His hair was slick and jet black and the guitar she strung was missing a string. She moved between the next wagon to better see behind him and saw a roasting boar, spining on the fire, with a young boy lifting, pushing and pulling the crank that slowly roasted the boar over the hot coals. The next gap she saw people going about their day, kids playing tag running through the camp, a little girl playing with a doll, a man chopping wood, and people sat at a table laughing. It was some time befor she found a break in the wagons to walk through. She had only seen maybe half of the the semi circle, the number of wagons must have been in the dozens. She began to walk into the campground looking for Pathwell. No one openly noticed her, as she stepped through  and around the people. A little hand grabbed hers and tugged it towards a tent where she saw Pathwell sitting, laughing and toasting with a older man, stocky and built much like the little lady that had carried her bags.
Pathwell finally noticed her standing there, not very pleased with him, sometimes between a toast and a joke. "Lizzy!" he stood to hug her, to which she stood there unphased. "Oh come now, bring it in Elizabeth, dont be shy. These are friends, please sit."
Through clenched teeth so scolded him, "You just left me in the woods." [ I should expand on her time in the woods to make it feel like longer]
"Oh I did not such thing." he turend to her side, right arm around her back squeezing her shoulder. "I sent someone to come and get you and the bags. She found you didnt she?" He turned them to the side to see the little lady coming out from the tent with small tea kettle "Thank you Mama Baga, Elizabeth here would be figuratively and quite literally lost without you. Shes just a little nervous after the bear encounter."
"There was a bear!?"
"Not if you didnt see her." He siad hugging her tigher and twishing outward with his arm in the air. "Welcome Elizabeth, to Camp Cunnan, home of The Cunning Folk, dwelling of charmers, blessers, wizards and witches. Abode to the spaweives, and gwyllion. Refuge for all manner of oracles, tarot readers, bone casters, and druids. Haven to the mambos, and runemasters, did I say runemasters?"
"You did not"
"Runemasters! Dwelling for all manner of fortunetelllers, prohpets, mystics, and diviners. Sanctuary, Alcove, Holdfast, and Haunt to many of the more, spiritually attunded."
"And the occasial no good thief" The little lady chirped.
Pathwell turned and back to her smiling, "Oh please, I was only ever no good at being a theif."
"This is your home?" Elizabeth asked.
Pathwells left palm widend as he twisted his wrist, "Home is such a permenant term, I prefer... layover."
"Humph" the old lady chirped in again.
Elizabeth moved from Pathwells hug and stepped to the side, "What are we doing here? Im not some like bride now am I?"
"I already explained Lizzybeth, I need to see a man about a fortune."
"Is thie because of the whole bookkeeper thing or the life sucking ameoba thing?'
Pathwell turned her away from the kindly old couple, and lowered his tone, curling in towards her, "What do you say we just not mention either of those for now?"
"Why not?"
Pathwelll chuckeld nervously, squeezing her tighter and spinning back around, "So where were we Papa Baga?" Pathwell left Elizabeths side and sat back down with the kindly old man, lifting his glass to another toast. Looking back to Elizabeth, "Mingle, just a bit" he waived her on, "I think I have some more business to conduct with Mr. Papa Baga here." Papa Baga and Pathwell both laughed and toasted again. Elizabeth stood and stared for a moment as Pathwell went back to his conversation and livations. Her eyes shifted aruond in her head awkwardly and she turned slightly to the left and then to the right, looking around for someone to give her a signal of what to do. She just turned and began to slowly walk through the camp. The camp was a mish mosh of tents, lean-to's,  lavu's, yurt's, wickiup's, and whatever else could be built quickly and consistently, all aligned in a rats nest grid of chaos. Elizabeth would be forgiven if she had been lost, turned around, found, and lost again twice over just navigating from one section of the camp to the other. She looked backed at Pathwell again as he was laughing with the old man, deep in conversation.
She wove her way through the camp, smiling politely to the odd glances and stares, nodding in hopes of one in return. A little girl grabbed her by the hand, startling Elizabeth, as she was lead between, around and behind various homes before being stopped infront of a stall. "Here she is mama" the little voice sang. "Mama said for me to bring you to her." she said looking up at Elizabeth before leading her closer to the distracted women. The woman herself was dressed in a flowing brown dress with a blue open sweater.
She turned half listening to the child, "Very good, now go play Mishka." waving the child on before turning her attention to her guest. "Now, who are you young lady, and what do you need?"
Elizabeth stood still, frozen in thought and confusion, "Im not sure, the little girl just brought me over here." She looked behind her for signs of the girl but only saw the bust camp going about its day. She looked back to the tall women, staring at her, hands on hip waiting ofr an answer. "Im - Im not sure."
The tall women repeated herself, frustrated, "Why are you here? What do you need?" Only drawing a blank from Elizabeths expression, "Well you didnt jsut happen to find us for no reason, why are you here?"
"I was brought here" Elizabeth said plainly. The woman was now getting upset, as she was not usually happy to have to repeat herself let alone twice. Before she could though, Elizabeth managed to jump in, "by Pathwell." she looked ofr more words "Mr. Pathwell", hoping that would be enough. But all it did was turn her hosts head to the side in confusion.
"And what does that sort want with you?"
"I dont know." she said honestly, only to be returned with an unflinching expression before letting out a frustrated sigh before looking her up and down.
"Fine, come with me" she lazily waived Elizabeth towards her, as she turned and faded inot the darkness of a tall, circular, tent. Elizabeth leaned in hoping to be able to see more of wha twas happening inside, take a half step closer before catching herself. "Come, now" the voice commaned, almost knocking Elizabeth forward enough to follow the voice into the void. A timid step in and a shy step forward, cautiously she peered deeper into the what seemed like the forever gone.
Her eyes adjsuted slowly, making out a numb glow of lamps in the the tent. She first could make out the pattern of a fine carpet on the wall next to her, its blue leaf swirls and white blocks, mixed with a gold trim along the work. Her eyes adjusted to deeper into the round topped tent, seeing a hole in the top, intentially there to allow for the air to breath into the tent. Deeper still she could see the entire tent, lined with painstackingly gorgeous carpets. She saw the women behind a standing divider, sorting through a chest. Before standing, with an armful of clothes and walkign over to Elizabeth. "Try these on, take what you like." holding out the pile. Elizbeth stood confused staring at the women before having the clothes shoved into her hands, and being guided to the divider.
-] BRIDGE THESE TWO PARTS [-
The woman stood outside the tent waiting for ELizabeth to emerge, pulling a pipe from her hip, she puffed it back to life, filling the air with a scent of cloves, and deep hickory before placing it back on her hip. It was a moment befoer ELizabeth emerged with pajamas in hand, dressed simply in a mix of pastel linen, gold chains and a short blazer with a bandana holding her hair back. The women turned aruond as she heard ELizabeth approach, and exclaimed, clapping her hands togehter, "Belíssimo!" Elizbeth looked down and shyed away with a smile. Grabbing Elizabeth softly but intentionally by the wrist, "Come with me, we have to show you off." Pulling her behind her, ELizabeth dropped her old clothes on the ground as she was whipped around and between tent poles. They stopped when and gathered her senses when they stood infront of a semi circle of grandparents going about their day, some stitching, some mashing things, another doing the hair of a child. They all stopped and looked directly at ELizabeth, blankly, leaving her to feel like they were waiting for her to do something.
"Hi" she said with a poliete wave from the elbow, and a nod. They continued their assement of her silently, as elizabeth looked for any sign of acknowledgment. A few went back to their work, speaking with hushed tones in a mix of tongues, stopping to laugh from time to time.
When one of them finally spoke to her, it was just with a simple, "Sit... please" as she pointed to an empty space in the group. They all went about their business as finishing their tasks without saying too much more.[Maybe i shuold have them look over her, read her fortune, do random fortune teller things with her all at the same time.] It was a tap on the shoulder that startled Elizabeth the most. Pathwell was behind her nodding his head to the left.
"Sorry ladies, I need to borrow Ms. Elizabeth here for a moment." He moved away from the circle waving her on to follow him. It didnt take a lot of effort or convincing to get her our of there as she jumped up, said thank you to the group and darted to catch up to Pathwell who was rolling his sleeves up as he walked away.
Elizabeth hushed towards him"What was all that?"
"They were trying to figure out who you were through a concencious of applied guesses." Pathwell dimissed.
"What?"
"Stay Close Lizzy, this next part is going to be fun." Pathwell tucked his right arm behind him and pull out a handul of packages stacked together in a mess. Gripping them tight, crumpling them inhis hand a yellow light danced out in multiple directions from the edges of the sheet, as the fingers of his left danced in a circle, twisting and spinning. His left hand opend wide, and snaped closed, capturing the light. A few more twists of his palm and flicks of his fingers, and he drew a circle on the ground aruond them. From the circle point, a golden line burst out to the center, creating a small bead, before roping oout in wild directions. The light burned ELizabeths eyes and the ground below it. The wet dew grass steamed. The circle spun, around them, gaining speed, a breeze kicked up, blowing up from the ground, ELizabeths clothes lightend and filled with the breeze, the hair loose behind the scarf on her head danced in the swirling air, Pathwells jacket took fight behind him adn flapped in the air. Tucking his arms into his chest the wind stopped, and the circles stopped spinning.
"What was that all about?" But as the words left her mouth his arms shot out, palms open, fingers splayed out. The circles took off again , spinning wildly air shooting around them, it was all elizabeth could do but to close her eyes. The wind whipping around her increaseing its fury, and removing itself from her breath She fought back against the ravenious air, as she tried to inhale. Her eyes watered, her joints ached, her scarf flew off her head, she blindly reached to grab it before it was lost. her hand was snatched back as felt her fingers grip the scarf. Pathwell hugged her tightly as she closed her eyes again. The wind let up and she felt safe to open her eyes. The scarf in her hand was singed in half. She stared at the scarf in dismay, before Pathwell let go of her.
[Spend more time fleshing out the campgrounds and its people. I should also add some sort of him hearing the narrotor]
"You okay? Still got all your fingers and toes?"
"You mean what thing would have done this
she held the scarf to his face, "to my fingers?"
"Oh most certinaly" he said factually.
"What was that?"
"That, was a portal."
"To where?"
"Here."
"Where Is Here!?"
"I dont know" pathwell said chipperly, "Lets find out."  before he began looking around. Gaining her whits about her Elizabeth realized she was in a small room, just big enough for the two of them and some mop buckets. Her elbow bumped into a shelf of cleaning supplies and she lowered her arm. Pathwell had found the door infront of them and opened the door with blind confidence standing in the doorway for a moment before leaning out his head and looking around. Closing the door  he looked back to ELizabeth, "Looks clear".
"What do you mean, 'Look clear?', where did you take me? Are we not supposed to be here?"
Pathwell shrugged, "Dont know, but it looks clear and we arent going to figure out  much by standing in here." Pathwell opened the door and stepped out, taking short breaths quickly and sniffing the air before leaning back into the closet "Airs fine"
"Why wouldnt it be" Elizabeth yelled in a hush.
Pathwell shrugged agian, "You never know with these sort of things." before looking around more outside the closet. The halls were empty, white speckled hard tiles, with seemingly random spots of a blue tile here, or a red tile there, sometimes next to each other or diagonal from each other. The doors had numbes of them and name below that, The walls were linked posters of some sort, and opposite of the posters were double stacked lockers. "Why are there lockers on the wall?"
"What?" Elizabeths head poked out the door looking around, seeing the mentioned lockers, and posters on the walll, the names on the doors and the numbers above them, shrinking back into the closet, she yelled at him in her quiests tone she could muster, "You brought us to a school!?"
"What?"
Elizabeth stared at him, "A school Pathwell, you know, a place where, children, learn things. Surely youve been to school before."
"Oh, that explains the posters." He walked up to one on the wall.
"What are we doing in a school Pathwell?"
He looked abck at her, still hiding in the closet, "Oh, I have no idea."
From the half shut door of the closet, Elizabeth whispered again as loudly as she could, "What do you mean, you have no idea?"
Pathwell began to wander down the hall, speaking unabashed, "We went where we needed to go."
"What!?"
"We went where we needed to go, that doesnt mean i know where that was. Sometimes where you want to go and where you need to go arent the same place."
"That must be why Im not at home, and Im currently hiding in in a freaking closet in an elementary school."
"Howd you know it was an elemantary school?"
"It was a lucky guess" she snapped.
"You can come out of there, theres no one around, its Saturday." Pathwell raised his arms up and shrugged. Elizbeth opened the door and slowly looked around, stepping out of the closest she closed the door. As she did a bell rang, loud and long. She tried to open the door but it was locked behind her, children came pouring out of the classrooms in a tidal wave of waist high backpacks. Elizabeth stared at pathwell wide eyed and angry.
Pathwell halted one by the loop of the top of the backpack. "Small child, what is today"
"The 22nd"
"What day?"
"Monday"
Elizabeth stared unflinching at him. "Youre unbelievable" The pint sized seige of chaos raged around them, but as all sotrms do, this one passed as well. They had drawn the attention of a few teachers passing by, but not enough to warrent inquisition. So Pathwell started to walk around the halls looking around at the different classes, peaking through the glass of the classrooms. "What are you looking for?"
"I dont know." he said plainly, turning his head slightly to the side to look at her and smile.
"Then how do you know when you find it?"
Pathwell sighed, "You know, Im going to run out of ways to say 'I dont know' if ou keep asking the same question". Before turning back to the classroom and moving back down the hall. Strolling. Elizabeth sighed, and followed him, looking suspicious as she tried her best not to be noticed. It wasnt until they reached the 3rd hall way that Pathwell froze in his tracks.
"Whats wrong? Or dont you know that either?"
Pathwell looked into the darkened classroom, his hands cupping around his eyes as he pressed them against the glass. "I dont see anyone here" he said disapointedly. "And sarcasm will get you nowhere in this world." he said standing back up looking around.
"Can I help you" a voice interrupted them from behind. It was a stout man, with a badge, they type of people Pathwell usually did his best to avoid.
Pathwell waived him off, "No, no we're good here. Thank you."
The man paused and looked at them questioningly, "Could you please put on your IDs? Theyre required to be one at all times in the building."
"Well you see..." Pathwell patted his pockets and looked around him, "I dont know aht happened to them, I could have sworn we have them here"
The teacher moved closer to them, "Was there someoen you were looking for?"
"No, not at this time."
"Then what are you doing here? Who are you?" He reached for his walkie "Can someone get me eyes on two guests in the north wing?"
"Oh theres no need for that" Pathwell raised a hand, as he began to reach into the back of his coat.
"There you are! Honey, you just wandered off, I told you I just was going to be a minute." Elizabeth walked up from behind Pathwell, and looked at the teacher, "Oh my goodness, Im sorry, I didnt mean to interupt. Im the misses. "She stuck her hand out offering to shake the teachers hand. "Its nice to meet you  mister...?"
The teacher smiled polietly, slightly confused, "You can just call me Ken, its a please to meet you. Im osrry I didnt get your name."
"Mrs. Pathwell, and this is my husband, Mr. Pathwell." She said gesturing to Pathwell with an elbow to the side "Dont be rude honey."
Pathwell joleted as the elbow landed a little more intentionally than he would have expected. Forcing a smile out, as he leaned forward quickly with his hand out as well.
The teacher shook both their hands, wearally, and confused. "Nice to meet you. Do you have a student here currently?"
The two of them paused, looking for the other to answer, when a voice from behind them broke the silence. "Theyre here to see me Ken." A tall man stepped around the side of Elizabeth, his shoulders were wide, and his hair slicked jet black. He was well dressed in a button down covered by a vest. "Sorry, I was running late Pathwell. Hope I didnt keep you waiting long."
Pathwell lokced eyes with the man, "Stansbury" he forced a smile, "its been too long." Stansbury smiled back with a light chuckle.
"Sorry about any confusion Ken, Ill make sure to check out when they leave." Stansbury stepped between them and opened the door, welcoming Pathwell and Elizabeth in behind him, nodding to the other teacher as they passed him. The door latched behind Stansbury, as he placed his jacket and vbrief case on the desk. Loosening his tie he turned to and sat down, without looking at Pathwell or his companion. He took a deep breath, "What do you want?"
Well thats the thing" Pathwell began.
Elizabeth jumped in snottally, "He doesnt know"
Pathwell turned to her and smiled, "That is technially true, but-"
"Then why are you here?" Stansbury interuptted
"Well -"
"He doesnt know that either"
Pathwell turned back gain to ELizabeth and did his best to convey a smile taht read 'youre not helping', "Again, techinally true -" he said.
"Who is she?" Stansbury said pointing to Elizabeths direction witout addressing her.
Pathwell laughed to himself slightly, "Funny you should ask-"
"He doesnt know that too". Elizabeth stepped forward hand out, "Im Elizabeth Smith. Nice to meet you".
Stansbury judged her for a moment, and then nodded before turning his attention back to Pathwell, "So, you dont know why youre here, and you dont know what you want with me. That only leaves the how."
Pathwell answered plainly, "Papa Baga"
Stansbury adjsuted his posture in his chair, sitting up straight and begging to lean towards Pathwell upon the mention of the name, thinking for a moment, "Now that is interesting, what are you doing with a determinist? Dont tell me youve went and sold your future." Stansbury sat back and laughed to himself, a lack of reaction from Pathwell told him all he needed to know, causing him to laugh again. "Oh you must be desperate."
"Apparently more than I know"
"Well well, I really do have you by the short hairs then dont I?" Stansbury stood, amused, slowly walking over to Pathwell, lowering his tone as he got closer to him, "Oh yes, I can see it in your eyes" Stansbury got closer, "Oh I can smell it on you" sniffing Pathwell "That stench of desperation." Pathwell rolled his eyes, "And what do you expect from me, hmm? You were sent on a wild goose chase, and it brought you right to me."
"To be fair, it wasnt my choice"
Stansbury began to circle Pathwell "Oh you must be in trouble." He looked over to Elizabeth as he circled round th eback of Pathwell, "And you, why are you with him? What are you doing here?"
Elizabeth looked over quickly, feeling the anexirty burrow deep into her chest, take up space where there was no room, she lost all thought that she had been holding and was only able to stammer out a "He brought me here" before looking away.
Pathwell moved between them and waived his hand in Stansburys face. "Come now Stanny, this isnt about her, its about us, lets stay on topic for now." Pathwell smiled "sound good?"
"Of course, but youre hiding something, and it will come out on its own, always does with you." Stansbury moved back to his desk, sitting on the edge. "So then, what am I supposed to do, hmm? How am I supposed ot help you, if you wont even tell me why youre here." he placed his hands in his pocket and looked back and forth between the two of them.
"We have to kill him in the future." Elizabeth felt the words remove themself from deep in the back of her throat, she hadnt even realized she said it before Pathwell looked back over to her in frustration.
Stansbury didnt react at first, but riased his eyebrows at the words, chuckling to himself, "Again?"
"Yes, again" Pathwell said defeatedly.
"And what, you need my help?"
"It would seem that way."
"So then whats the next move? I leave here with you, and we go on some misadventure together?"
Pathwell stood there, looking defeated, his head cocked to the side, with pursed lips.
"Im in, Ive been wanting to kill you for years."
"So I take it thats a yes?" Pathwell said impaitently.
Stansbury smiled "Oh thats a yes" he stood and moved to hug pathwell, "it would be my honor." Pathwell slapped his arms away. "Dont be afraid of it Pathwell, I know youve wanted this for a long time"
Pathwell again slapped his outstretched arms away. "Get away from me you weirdo" He said stepping to the side.
Stansbury could only smile as he stood there staring, "Well then, where are we off too" he said looking back and forth between the two of them. Catching a thought he realized, "Oh I need to get my stuff"
Elizabeth looked around the room, "Dont you have a class to teach?"
Stansbury laughed, "Oh heavens no. I havent actually taught a class in years."
"Then what do you do all day?"
"This and that" Pathwell said dismissingly.
"He steals childrens energy"
Stansburys lips pursed and his eyes narrowed, "That feels a bit reductive, even for you." he turned towards ELizabeth, "I harness latent magic enegey created by the childrens work, and redirect it into items, I then sell those items to interested buyers. I dont steal anything, the kids get their work back, the parents get to put it up on a fridge at home and then toss it in a box in the attic for a decade. It wouldnt never be used otherwise."
"That feels... harmless... I guess?" Eizabeth let the words kind of mumble out, looking to Pathwell for approval. "That doesnt really feel any differnet that what you did at the bookstore."
"You went to see the keeper!?" Stansbury couldnt hold back the laughter. "And now youre here? Oh Pathwell, you must really, really be in trouble here huh? And you took this poor girl with you?" he turned his attention again to Elizabeth, "Did you meat Mr. Boots?" Elizabeth held up her hand to show him the still fresh scratch, Stansbury chuckled, "You did indeed. Well then, let me see if I can get a full picture of the situation, You" pointing to Pathwell "need my help, because you went to the bookstore, and then to Papa Baga, who lead you right to me, because you need to stop your future self from dooing something that you dont know about yet?" He raised his finger to his lip, in a moment of thought, "No, we arent quite there yet, are we. Theres still something missing" He looked at Elizabetha gain and saw her trying not be be seen by him as she avoided eye contact, "Yes there is, but what is it?" He shifted towards her with a decyphering look, "but what is it?"
"Oh will you just knock it off with the dramatics?" Pathwell interrupted before sighing, "Fine, look, I was being chased by a
, that wasnt too particularly happy with me, for whatever reason. I broke into the Ms. Elizabeths home here, in need of some energy as the keeper wasnt letting me in, with a sucker after me. I procured a cookbook from her, sent the sucker on its way for the time being, and brought her along with me for the trouble."
"Brought Me Along!? You said my apartment was marked and i couldnt go back!?"
Pathwell hemmed and hawed, "Well, you know, it was and it wasnt. So to speak."
Stansbury snuck in, "He lies you know."
She snapped towards Stansbury, "Im figuring that out." Focusing her attention back to Pathwell, "It was and it wasnt? What does that even mean, which one is it?"
Pathwells left side curled in, his eye winced, "wasnt" he squeaked out. "But you know, would really want to go back now after what youve seen?"
"Yes!" Elizabeth was furious, "I could be at home eating Thai!" Stansbury chuckled to himself watching it all unfold. "Shut it" Elizabeth was staring through Pathwell, "Take me home, right now"
Pathweill paused, "Heres the thing"
"He lies" Stansbury snuck in again
"If you really wanted to go home, that portal, the one that brought us here, would have taken you home. Thats what the portal does, more or less."
"What are you saying? Can I go home or not?"
"Im saying you can whenever you want, but you dont want to, at least not deep down. Thats why youre here with me, about to buy illegal magic weapons from this mook" He said, gesturing towards Stansbury.
"You dont know what I want"
"I dont think you do either."
Elizabeth paused for a moment, conflicted, hoping she would find a responce. But there was nothing. Only a frustrating silence, staring her in the face as she searched and searched for a reason to go home. Surely there would be someting, deep down that she could find, some sort of reason why she needed to go home. It was there that she found nothing. A rush of hopelessness hit her, was her life worth nothing? Did she have nothing to look forward to? Was she living inbetween the motions of her life? She felt herself building up, that pressure had found space inside her chest again, pressing out, finding corners of her heart to take hold in, she looked up at Pathwell through watery eyes, and he saw her with nothing to say, no answer to his questions, no reasons to be where she was, and no reason to be anywhere else. He felt it in a moment, as she looked away, still silent. He paused for a moment, listening to the silence in the room.
"What was that?" He looked around him in the air.
"What was what?" Stansbury looked at him puzzled.
"Sorry, I thought...nevermind" Pathwell turned back to Elizabeth, moving in closer to her, "Theres nothing wrong with being lost Lizzy, but theres two ways out of it, you can either pick a direction and keep going until you find your way, or..." He paused moving in closer "or, you can learn to appreciate not having any idea where youre going" She looked up at him, "because sometimes thats right where you belong." Her frown flattened out, and she opened her eyes to look at him. "And if I had to guess" He places his hand on her shoulder "you already know which way you want to go".
Elizabeth wiped her eyes with the palsm of her hand, rubbing her eyes, as she pulled her hands down over her face. Taking a deep breath, holding it for a second before letting it out slowely and looking up at the speckled grid ceiling, "Im not saying no yet" She looked to Pathwell, "but Im not saying yes"
Pathwell clapped his hands "Good enough for me lets go" Pathwell made his was towards the door.
"Pathwell, arent you forgetting something" Stansbury spoke up, "I believe you said you came here for a reason. Youre gonna need my help."
Pathwell paused mid stride, and slowly turned abck around, "Right. About that." Pathwell pursed his lips, "Any chance you want to let me just burrow one of those swords?"
Stansbury chucked "Oh no, youre not gonna get off that easy." He stood and walked towards PAthwell "You promised me, that I would get to kill you." Stansbury poked his finger into the chest of Pathwell, "You need me, and Im coming with you.”